# movie-critic
React project

- Time spent: I spent approximately 10 hours in total. These hours include understanding the project, setting up environment, learning/researching React, coding and getting deliverables completed
- Explanation of work: To be completely honest, I relied heavily on AI to help me with this project. I was learning React as I worked on it since I had very little prior experience, aside from briefly using it for a small thing last year. I needed to understand the syntax, how components interact, and how state management works. Balancing this with my computer science coursework made it challenging to learn React from scratch while completing the project within the given timeframe. From the start, I knew I needed at least two components: ReviewList.js and ReviewItem.js to structure the project properly. The ReviewItem.js component is responsible for displaying key details like the MPAA rating, display title, and publication date for each review. To visualize how this would work, I sketched out my ideas on paper before implementing them. I also added check marks and X marks to indicate whether a movie was a Critics Pick, as I thought it would make the UI more informative. AI assisted me with structuring this component, but it wasn’t too difficult to understand. However, the ReviewList.js component was much more challenging, and I relied on AI much more for this part. Since I wasn’t familiar with useState, AI helped guide me in setting up the search bar and implementing the "Load More" functionality to display 10 additional movies at a time. Overall, I found this project very interesting because it made me think about how search bars and filters work behind the scenes which is something I had never really considered before. Even though I leaned heavily on AI, I learned new things in React and I believe I would have gained a deeper understanding if I had more time to learn React without the added pressure of my other coursework.
- AI Usage: Since I am new to React, I used AI to guide me in structuring reusable components, implementing useState for state management and writing efficient filtering logic. I reviewed all AI-generated suggestions to ensure they met the project requirements and I adapted the code to make it simpler and easier to understand, reflecting my own perspective. However I did not have the time to complete all project requirements.
- What I learned and I could've done better: I learned how to use props to pass data from parent to child components for the ReviewItem component, managing component state with useState. I also learned modularizing code into smaller, reusable components. I want to implement more css to make the website look better but I encountered errors and didn't have time for the implementation.
